Azure Compute Services

1.Azure Virtual Machines
2.Azure Container Instances
3.Azure App Services
4.Azure Functions or serverless computing

-Azure Virtual Machines

Virtual machines are software emulations of physical computers.

-Virtual Machine Scale Sets

These are an Azure Compute resource that we can use to deploy or manage a set of identical vms.

-Container and Kubernates
 Thease are Azure compute resources that we can use to deploy and manage containers.
 
 Containers are lightweight ,virtalized application enviornments.
 
 
 -App Services
 
 We can quickly build,Deploy and scale enterprise-level web mobile and Api apps on any platform.
 
 -Functions
 
 This is ideal when we are concerned about only the code running our service and not the platform or infrastructure.

When to user Azure Virtual Machines

1) During Testing and Development
2) When running applications in the cloud
3)when extending your dataceter to the cloud
4) During Disaster recovery

Scale Vms in azure

1.Virtual Machine Scale Sets
2.Azure Batch

1.Virtual Machine Scale Sets==>virtual machine scale sets allow us to create and manage a group of identical,Load-balanced VMS.

2.Azure Batch==>Azure Batch enables large-scale parallel and hight performance computing batch jobs with ability to scale to tens,hundreds or thound vms.

Azure App Service

Types of Azure Service

1.Web apps
2.Api apps
3.webjobs
4.Mobile apps

Azure Container and Azure Kubernates Service

What are containers

Containers are a virtaulization enviornments much like running virtual machines on a single physical host.we can multiple containers on a single physical
	or virtual host.
	
Manage Containers

Containers are managed through a container orchestrator.

there are 2 ways

1.Docker
2.Microsoft based containers
	a) Azure Container Instances
	b) Azure Kubernates Service (AKS)
	
	Azure Container Instances==>This is an PAAS offering that allow you to run conatiners which we can run.
	Azure Kubernates Service ==> The task of automating,managing and interacting with large number of conatiners is known as orchestation
		This Service is complete orchestration service for containers with distributed architeture and large amount of containers.
	

Serverless computing is the abstraction of servers,infrastructure and operating systems.

serverless computing includes

1.abstraction of servers ==> deploye the code which will run on hight availability
2.Event-driven scale==>Events include trigger  by
a) Timers => if we need a function to run daily at 10:00Am
b) HTTP==>for example api or webhook scenario
c) Queues==> order processing
d)etc
3.micro-billing	if code run once a day for 3 minutes they will charge for one execution and 2 minutes of computing time
		
Azure have two implementations of serverless computing

1.Azure Functions==> functions can execute code in almost any modern language
2.Azure Logic Apps =>Logic apps are designed in a web-based designer and can execute logic trigger by azure services without writing any code.

		
		
Azure Functions vs Azure Logic Apps
		
		
		Functions                                                        |     logic Apps
		
1) Normally stateless														1) stateful

2) Code-first																2) Designer first

3)Each activity is a azure function and we have to write code for			3) Large collections of ready-made actions
  activity functions
  
4)Azure application Insights												4)Azure portal log analytics
		


Quiz	
		
1. Which Azure compute resource can be deployed to manage a set of identical virtual machines?

a)Virtual machine scale sets --
b)Virtual machine availability sets
c)Virtual machine availability zones

2. Which of the following services should be used when the primary concern is to perform work in response to an event (often via a REST command) that 
  needs a response in a few seconds?

a)Azure Functions--
b)Azure App Service 
c)Azure Container Instances

3. Your company has a team of remote workers that need to use Windows-based software to develop your company's applications, but your team members are 
	using various operating systems like macOS, Linux, and Windows. Which Azure compute service would help resolve this scenario?

a)Azure App Service
b)Azure Virtual Desktop --
c)Azure Container Instances
