Azure Accout


Azure Accout==> Subscriptions==>rsource groups==> resources


Quiz

You need to purchase an azure account before you can use any azure resources
1) true
2) false--

what is cloud computing

1.Delivery of computing services over the internet--
2.setting up own datacenter
3.using the internet

which of the following is not a feauture of cloud computing

1.Fast innovation
2.A limited pool of services--
3.Speeach recognition and other congntive services

Type of Cloud Models

These are 3 deployment models for cloud computing

1.Public Cloud
2.Private Cloud
3.Hybrid Cloud

1.Public Cloud==> Services are offered over the public internet and availble to anyoner who want to purchse them.Cloud resources like Servers and storage are owned
	and operated by a third party cloud services provider and deliver over the internet.
	
2.Private Cloud==>A private cloud consists of computing resources used exclusively by the user from one orgainization.A private cloud can be physically located at your orgainization
	on-site or it can be hosted by a third-party service provider.

3.Hybrid Cloud===>A hybrid cloud is a computing environment that combines a public and a private cloud by allowing data and application to be shared between them.

Comparision on Cloud Models

Public Cloud
1.No Capital expensitures to scale up
2.Applications can be quicly provisioned and deprovisioned.
3.Organization pay only for what they use.

Private Cloud
1.Organization have compete control over resources and security.
2.Organization are resposible for hardware maintenance and updates.
3.Harware must be purchased for starup and maintenance.


Hybrid Cloud

1.Provides the most flexibility.
2.Organization determine where to run their application
3.Organization control security,compliance or legal requirements.



Cloud computing advantages?

1.High availbility
2.Scalability
3.Elasticity
4.Geo-Distribution
5.Disaster recovery


Capital Expense and operating expense

1.CapEx(Capital Expense )==>its the up-front spending of money on physical infrastructure.The up-front cost from CapEx has value that reduces over time.

2.Operation expenditure (OpEx)==>spending money on service or product now and being billed for them now.There is no upf-front cost,as you pay for a service.


Cloud-Computing is a comsumption based model(OPex)

.No up-front costs
.no need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure that user might not use to its fullest
.the ability to pay for additional resources when they are needed
.the ability to stop paying for the resources that are no longer needed.


Cloud Service Models

1.IAAS=> Infrastructure as a service
2.PAAS==> Platfrom as a Service
3.SAAS===>Software as a Service

Cloud Provider
Cloud tenant

IAAS

This service Model is closest to managing physical servers.
A cloud Provider will keep hardware up-to-date but operating system maintenance and network configuration is up to you as a cloud tenant.

Azure Virtual machines are fully operational 


PAAS 

This cloud service model is a managed hosting environment.
The cloud provider manages the virtual machines and networking resources and the cloud tenant deploys their application into the manages hostig environment

Azure App Services provide a manages hosting environment 


SAAS


In this cloud service model the cloud provider manages all the aspects of the application environment such as virtual machines,networking 
resources data storage and applications.

The cloud Tenant only provide their data to the application.

Microsoft office 365.


Cloud model comparision

IAAS														|			PAAS                                               |         SAAS

1.The most flexible cloud service                            1.Focus on application development									1.Pay-as-you-go pricing model

2.you can configure and manage the hardware 				 2.Platform management is handled by cloud provider					2.Users pay for the software they use ona subscription model


Serverless Computing

Serverless computing enables developers to build applications faster by elimnating the need for them to manage infrastructure.

with serverless applicatios the cloud service provider automatically provsions,scale and manages the infrastructure required to run the code.

Quiz

1.which of the following isn't a cloud computing category

a) Network as a service--
b) platform as a service
c) infrastructure as a service
d) software as a service

2. Which of the following statements is true?

a)With Operating Expenses (OpEx), you are responsible for purchasing and maintaining your computing resources.
b)With Operating Expenses (OpEx), you are only responsible for the computing resources that you use.--
c)With Capital Expenses (CapEx), you are only responsible for the computing resources that you use.

3.Which of the following options isn't a type of cloud computing?

a)Distributed cloud--
b)Hybrid cloud
c)Private cloud
d)Public cloud

4. Which of the following choices isn't a benefit of using cloud services?

a)Scalability
b)Disaster recovery
c)High availability
d)Geographic isolation--


Azure Subscriptions,Management resources groups and resources

1.Resources==>Resources are instances of services that we create like virtual machines,storage etc.
2.Resources Groups ==> Resources are combined into resource groups which act as logical container into which azure resources like web apps,databases are deployed and managed.
3.Subscriptions ==> A subscription group together user accounts and the resources that have been created by those users accounts.
4.Management Groups==>These groups helps us to manage access policy and compliance for multiple subscription.All subscription in a management group automatically 
	inherit the conditions applied to the management group.
	

Azure region ,availability zones and region pairs

Regions:-Region is a graphical area on the planet that contains at least one potential datacenter that are nearby and network together with a low-latency network.

West US,Canada

Azure Availablity zones

Availablity zones are physically separate datacenters within an azure region.
Each availability zone is made up of an one or more datacenters eqipped with independent power ,cooling and networking.


Azure Region Pairs





		